in 1983 a scruffy 19 year old musician
named Duff McKagan moved from his
hometown of Seattle to Los Angeles when
he joined a fledgling band called Guns
and Roses within five years Duff and his
bandmates were living the rock and roll
dream and all that goes with it
in 1994 empowered by sobriety Duff
grabbed the world by the tail and hasn't
looked back and there he is
I'm in Dallas I invited him to my place
to talk about his new book his
daughter's band and his intricate hair
care regime well come on in you wasn't I
don't see any people what's wrong
want some coffee yeah uh coffee's good
you want some coffee yet snacks snacks
sweetie I just made you by the way are
the quintessential rock star I mean and
you carry it off beautifully what does
that mean oh yeah yeah well it you
there's a certain you have a look that
anyone who looks at you would say this
guy is a rock star I just you just kind
of you have this you exude this sort of
energy okay what's the percentage of
leather in your wardrobe would you say
um that's a good question I have no I I
do have my numbers guy I am a numbers
guy well uh leather books
yeah it's 5050 5050 yeah yeah wool
leather cotton cut a lot of cotton icon
okay but rock star of course is the tip
of the iceberg you're a writer a
business dude a family guy and when you
get to all of that stuff um but I want
to start with the rock and roll okay
okay um so you've been working a working
musician for over half your life yes
would you say like well over half well
over half you like that um and it all
began in your teens in Seattle
Washington and you're in like a lot of
bands that were kind of the pre grunge
for a punk what was that scene like yeah
remember much about it I wish you know I
think at some point I'd like to write
just like a little book
or something I got on that because it
was such an interesting time here in
Seattle there was a place called the
bird and and it was a punk rock place
and bands would come to play that DOA
was a band and so finally being the last
of eight kids what wanting something of
my own everybody played music or was
involved with music there was finally
something at my age group that was my
own that was punk rock and just of his
gigs everywhere at all that like these
little union halls but that was a place
you could rent if he had somebody over
eighteen to sign for it and he had to
rent a cop an off-duty cop but that's
about it well I think it's going to play
you bringing a PA some somebody's got a
PA or
you piece together something and there's
a rock show yeah so so you are like what
15 ish or someone you said hey this is
my path yeah 13 13 yeah yeah so you
played a number of bands I know and see
how all sorts of things and then your
list of band credits is long and
Wikipedia gives the whole shebang but
we'll just hit a few okay so let's start
with Guns and Roses that you were the
bass player are you known for playing
the bass in a particular way
is there a deaf Mike Hagen bass sound I
yes
I mean I've lucked into the sound I
really liked sign the family stone is a
lot of like R&B music else I have a funk
or like oh yeah early prints and when I
moved to LA I up here I played drums and
bass and guitar I couldn't figure out
which one I was gonna go to market with
really yeah what's gonna be my thing
right so when I went down there um
Justin buddy by the end of the day I was
gonna be a bass player okay so what
sound what loud went get a good base may
sound so I kind of went after some some
sounds I liked Larry Graham and then
there was a band called Killing Joke
which is not funk it's not are me it's
like post-punk uh-huh and sort of like
this amalgamation of all these sounds
mm-hmm and I got really kind of bright
bass strings mm-hmm I found like a
string rut bright bright sounding mm-hmm
okay sound like kind like piano wire I
did the amp and whatever ended in a pic
kind of everything so the pic is kind of
it's a little thinner mm-hmm so it's so
like a pull off but using a pick this
kind of sounds like sort of slapping but
still rock and roll yeah yeah that's
kind of line yeah so it was just
something I really stumbled into and
became I guess my sound
I've been watching some Guns and Roses
music videos just kind of thinking about
you and you know the big deal like that
that ban was you're so young you're all
so young and so cute with really great
hair of course at one point I don't know
where it wasn't in the run of the van
but you guys were the biggest you were
the biggest fan in the world it was a
point and so I'm wonder what was it like
to be at the center of that tornado what
was that like if it's going to find that
feeling mm-hmm well of course you don't
realize it if you're in the middle of it
like how big your bands getting yeah um
I remember coming back to LA after that
first apatite construction tour there's
no internet then right there's no
cellphones right so you're getting um
changes in culture slower sure so hey we
had left LA and we came back to LA year
and a half later everybody was wearing
cowboy boots in like bandanas and looked
like us we could tell my god they're
dressing like us and so the culture had
changed but still I think there was like
six months in there where I thought
where the bands really started to get
big and I thought well you know of
course the girls yeah she finally
realize how good-looking I am
funny mainly and funny funny and my
engaging and a whole package it's really
they finally got it because I knew it
all the time sure you did and I had a
bunch of friends like wow these people
really they get it - yeah my posture is
perfect my smile must be great but then
yeah I do come from this really big
family and one of my older brothers came
down to LA and kind of saw that what was
going on and I I bought a Corvette we
started to get some money and I bought a
Corvette mm-hmm I gotta buy like $25,000
car it wasn't a $250,000 why don't we or
whatever yeah a Lamborghini or something
mm-hmm I got like you know a blue-collar
rich guys car yeah and my brother John
came down and said oh so you just gonna
spend all your money and be a like a an
idiot and you said mm-hmm uh no I can't
yet yeah any it kind of pointed out this
particular brother will point out things
to you the
want to see mm-hmm and he protect this
guy's don't want these guys just use in
these and yeah okay okay so you come to
that realization
oh you're popular mm-hmm how do you deal
with that you deal with that they were
done with it be right
well so so now when you're looking back
at mean how would you sum up the
experience what is the what did the band
what does the band mean to you
well yeah so I'm just talking about the
beginnings really um the band we were it
was a real we did it on our own and we
did it how we wanted to do it and we
knew at least within the five guys of
the band like this is the coolest thing
we've ever this is beyond what we
thought it could be and the chemistry of
the band was was perfect to us we became
a brotherhood because we went experience
so much together only the five of us can
really understand what happened because
you are in this this bubble it's it's
really huge you have a lot of people
working for you yeah but in the center
of it you guys are like this thing that
everybody is trying to get a piece of
well suddenly there's outside people
there's managers and like this little
kind of things being wedges being driven
in and whatnot but we didn't see it and
all of us lived so that's a good thing
it's a beauty thing so we have memories
of it and I'm still friend you know
friends with everybody there you Jane
you've stained basically connected to
everyone in some way yeah it's a you
know we're only here like once well so
after Guns and Roses I know you know
Velvet Revolver which is kind of a
supergroup walking papers which I know
you guys played art song yeah it's got a
record deal
and loaded
what you forming in the 90s late 90s in
you and it's been going strong I mean
you're still touring with that bad so
when I went to see out of you after guns
yeah we're having babies yeah
Susan was happening purchase a room you
had something to do with it yeah yeah I
was there yeah yeah I went to see out of
you I got in to see out of you yeah I
went business school but I couldn't just
like be a student so I had to play music
so formed this band loaded here it was
kind of like my college band usually you
have your college band before Yeah right
right but I had it after and then it
became a real kind of thing you know
you're you're playing guitar and your
lead vocals you are the front guy
frontman so is there a difference
between being the frontman and being
sent all to say the rhythm section Weber
playing bass whatever not being in this
spotlight center stage is there a
difference for you yeah I so loaded I
didn't play guitar and sing on purpose
the thing I started writing songs and I
think maybe I thought okay I'll get a
singer or so and it was just too much of
a hassle to be in school you have little
babies at home and getting a singer so I
just got it we start playing gigs and we
went played Japan on the spring break
and it we played these big gigs and it
just seemed to work to you it's been a
long time
singing is it's a challenge and I've
really kind of like started taking
seriously like how do I get to be a
better singer and hit notes you know and
get a wider range and do vocal warm-ups
and all that stuff yeah it's made me a
better backup singer for when Velvet
Revolver happened oh yeah
understood stuff a lot more so you never
stopped as a musician I I think I really
like I'm 51 right so you like you you
can get better your craft I think you
apply yourself yeah more later in life
too yeah I'm going to take this
seriously what it went for what going
playing now and you I mean most people
don't will never play big huge stadium
shows or big um what's it like I'm
always curious
I'm with just from a fans point of view
to walk on to a stage and there's
screaming fans it was it feel like it
does it ever get to be old hat I have so
far knock on wood I've never had a gig
big or small that's been old hat yet Wow
yeah I get nervous every show we're
anxious like like like am I gonna be
able to deliver there's a whole hour
before thing I do and if I don't do it
that's it it's almost like baseball but
what it is or is it see well it's it's
um ya know it's not secret like I have
to have a energy drink huh one hour
before the show and I got it down it
straight okay mm-hmm and that just kind
of sets a base and then 40 minutes
before I have to sip at another one yeah
and and it has to be a long time like
anybody that knows me knows like hour
before show it's like my wife but kids
they leave yeah so I warm up and I do
the thing and just kind of get ready and
and I guess I'm probably hi yeah we're
making it up yeah sure you don't want to
just I want to go out suck and it's not
an ego it's it's I think it's personal
inside like absolutely so you know me
getting to the place with with guns
roses playing the big huge place
it was gradual so we moved up and moved
up and but there was been some shows
where it's
it's unbelievable how many people were
there but then again you're playing some
small place in the person's right there
holy yeah right yeah yeah I got a nose
hair sticking out of it always got to
check that man make you put that on your
list yeah my good you get okay
thanks
all right well another chunk of your of
your creative life obviously is a writer
right um you've been writing a regular
column for C on a weekly since what 2008
yes probably how did you get that gig it
was 2007 I was on the road of belt
revolvers and Italian Vogue knew I just
come out of school I was like the only
guy who just went to college right yeah
in Rock okay so they thought well this
guy might be able to write something
they wanted a fashion piece on 1987
Hollywood yes right so so I'll try and
it turned out to be this other story it
was like I didn't know anything about
fashion in 1987 I realized our fashion
was just we were broke yeah so was the
clothes we had the holes were because
those were the pants you wore yeah and I
went into like 87 Hollywood everything
was going down from needles to sex and
everything and then kind of other things
started hit like HIV started come in and
and so might 87 Hollywood was a little
darker and I wrote the story and they
used it they liked it
in Italian it wasn't a tetanus before I
started doing my leisure we're gonna be
Italian on that right yes yes sir
languages yeah but somebody from the
weekly I guess a columnist had just left
at that point and somebody for the
weekly saw that in from Seattle yeah why
not yeah um do you enjoy doing it is it
is a fun I do I really do I I was
writing for a point that was writing all
the times writing for ESPN and the week
and I bought play what it was like three
different things yeah
yeah so I had three deadlines a week a
lots a lot and I was traveling and
touring and stuff it does keep you out
of trouble hmm
you know because you have to be focused
on your writing you're always thinking
about what am I gonna read it right yeah
and the panicky like I got to hit that
deadline what am I gonna write about
yeah that once I figure out what I could
was gonna write about then it would be a
get in like that was the easy writing of
it but just getting at what is it going
to be so in 2011 voila
yeah wrote this fabulous memoir it's so
easy in other lies about living in the
fast lane in surviving the fast lane of
rock'n'roll basically icicle II that's
basically so it's an excellent read it's
and what I want to say about this book
is it's so well structured it's a it's a
page-turner that is not easy to do so
I'm wondering how long did take it write
it and um I wasn't grueling writing
about some of the darker difficult parts
of your life okay so it took 14 months
so it started with some of the columns I
was writing for the weekly just weren't
appropriate huh um so okay I would say
that my word documents right and my
editor from Playboy he had read some of
my other things he goes you should write
a book
so I'd send him my stuff and then he go
hey document number 12 paragraph 3
sentence - hmm what did that look like
what did it feel like
mmm yes you're gonna fill it out I'm
like what I don't know I tell me cuz
don't don't tell me on the phone yeah
yeah my god right and then the arc of
that story started to kind of rise to
the top with many of these same people I
personally witnessed a wonderful lust
for life as we played music together as
kids I look toward the future
of course no one sets out to be a junkie
or an alcoholic it's not a tell-all no
absolutely uh and I don't think a
gentleman he's really kisses and tells
no it's it's nobody's business that's
not the story I'm trying to tell exactly
it's not the story yeah mm-hmm yeah well
I might mention so the new book
yeah the new book how to be a man and
other illusions yeah comes out in May
there was not an advance coffee copy so
I have not read it yet yes I have seen
the cover of the book you have yes okay
so um that cover is adorable and
handsome my daughter may did my hair and
makeup
well that really okay well here's just a
quick merch idea for you okay that
should be on a shirt okay and to that
end no you did but but it's internetting
oh you two shirts you didn't how did you
do that I did it yesterday and I got rid
of the name right there but I thought
and it's not it's crooked it's not my
what is this is this an idea for you
what do you think there it is right see
Guffey I should make you a head of I
don't have a merch depart I will be the
head of the merce department okay holy
you'd have to pay me a cent okay so this
the new book though does that that
started as a CL weekly column right I
did I think was called man up man up man
oh and it was about something like I
just gotten back from Europe I saw this
guy from this metal band like tough
gnarly dude he climbed there's an
audience out there and I'm watching and
the guy climbs up on the PA speaker like
I'm gonna jump but it's going gnarly but
he got up on top like oh crap and you so
he started that that walk of shame back
down the wing yes
and now audience is like laughing and so
it kind of went into like if you're
gonna be do something that's that's
gnarly and rad dude check it out first
think it through check it out but if
you're gonna get up there
jump yeah you got a job you can't be the
guy to back so you can't and that kind
of goes into life doesn't it you know
and and I started so I put all these
kind of stories not just that I learned
I don't know how to write I'm faking it
as we go everybody faking it right we're
all thinking it
but I've learned some things and seen
things that I've learned from others so
I kind of put them all in this story of
six months of meat or the point is being
a say to be yourself with your friends
and your anything and it's okay to be
whatever you are right if you're gay
straight anything right go just do it
go jump yeah jump yeah um you alluded to
this already we've talked about it but I
would guess that your biggest
accomplishment is your family of course
you're a lovely wife Susan you two
beautiful daughters grace in May Yeah
right
did you always think you'd have a family
or is this kind of a surprise I know
you've been married for a while and have
a family for a while now but did you is
it surprising to you I loved it's a
wonderful life since I was like nine you
know like that sort of hmm idea or an
ideal I guess he's always been there and
when I was in the throes of my alcohol
and drug it's like the most thing the
thing I was I was grieving for the most
once I really realized I couldn't stop
cuz I won't have that family and so when
I got sober when I got out of that stuff
I would realize well maybe I can I had
hopes and it's a unique responsibility
to be that dad you can't you can't you
got to stop a lot of your nonsense hmm
yeah yeah yeah so my girls are really
I'm really proud of both of them they're
fun they're fun people
they're enter their humors and smart and
they're kind of little leaders and and
well in grace your oldest has a band the
pink slips yeah um and are you kind of
managing I'm not kind of not managing no
I tour manage oh there you go good right
now yes so I'd like this morning yeah so
grace no she's the singer yeah grace
your singer always carry gear always
carry gear always carry gear don't be
the diva don't know you want a band you
wanted two guys so you're y'all fellas
together right yeah your team carry gear
are the fellas are gonna start like gone
getting annoyed
yeah what's it like to see your daughter
ripping it up on
I love it I mean I she does some things
uh she does some things that I'm like
whoa that's my daughter oh but then
again the other side of me almost a
bigger halfling
that's exactly what I would have done I
want to talk a little bit out sobriety
because would you say that with is it
fair that without sobriety you wouldn't
have any of what you have today uh yeah
it does fair to say mm-hmm that's fair
to say and what when you got sober in
1994 yeah right near thirty when you got
once you got over or through the kind of
withdrawal and got basically on your
feet right
did you was it was there a sense of like
oh here's the real me or was it oh I'm
Who am I
it was - Who am I Who am I for for a
long time yeah in slowly but surely I
mean I couldn't even like at the
beginning I was like being on an acid
trip mm-hmm and I done acid in my
teenage years so it was like hmm you'd
hear the boys come over in the grocery
store like probably I just get a price
check but I would think they're talking
about me like they spotted me oh I'm a
fraud oh I'm not really a sober guy you
know like really weird moments in there
I've come out of the store with weird
items like because I was just so nervous
had my might car that you smell all you
could smell his brake pad mm-hmm I was
just driving so stressed out and I just
wasn't comfortable in my own skin
yes and so I took I really lucked out or
her fate would have it then I stumbled
into the this particular martial art and
it really saw a guy and I saw his eyes
it was my sense it became my teacher in
his eyes he I saw everything
he's comfortable hmm he's happy he can
look you straight in the eyes he's
looking through me actually hmm he knows
what's going on inside it mm-hmm how do
you get that and I just followed this
guy for till now till now by design I
don't hang out with people are actively
doing crank right or whatever mm-hmm
because that it's just not my world and
that wouldn't be too healthy for me yes
yeah who knows how we got a signature
it's just family it's intelligent it's
not just in Seattle it's like everywhere
we go so we're all together yeah and I
tried it's a tribe and any one of us
could fall and and have dirt a long way
well there mm-hmm too sweet
so at this point in your life in your
career what has to be present for you to
say yes to put your talent and time into
a project one answer copy go be present
yeah um I don't know yeah I mean okay so
doing this thing yeah I trust you like I
had a conversation with the publisher
and their team and everything on Monday
was about the whole campaign and I said
yes but guys I'm doing Nancy and copy
showing Friday and yeah good luck but
what is't but the books not a it's okay
it's Nancy guppy well gee and then so
that there's people I know that I trust
and then you know uh to do things that
they want me to do I did dr. Phil on the
last book thing right that's a big luck
weird no-go zone for me like TV and that
stuff yes
um the book company of course over the
moon they're like he's read it and he's
really into the store it like the
getting better and if you can do it
anybody else can't you know what I say
in there um so I drove and I went in
that's all the people and this stuff in
the green room and the sandwiches and
the people pecking at yeah yeah and like
I'm not I don't know
and dr. Phil came in the room and he
said hey why I just leave him alone for
a second easy and he came he sat down he
was really cool and goes hey man I just
wanna let you know this is it's gonna go
I just want to talk to you about the arc
the particular points of the book if
that if that's cool with you we can
proceed you know and it was great so I
guess honesty mm-hmm kind of knowing
what's going on I got to know what's
going on um try not to suffer fools too
much these days and uh but I surround
myself with family and this the stuff
that's the most important to me and when
I go out and work I work hard because I
rest huh I've read I play hard with my
family and and we got in uh I got a good
base yeah yeah yeah well I I cannot tell
you how much I appreciate you giving us
your time yeah and drop them by yo cat
what I would say when I said
copy to all the New York is really
scared oh happy oh yeah she has been
asking about yes copy comes you hear
breaking like people huh you know haha
yes oh yeah my star is so big there yeah
thank you so much stuff alright really
really really great talking to you
cool I like your pad you can coming up
by anytime huh anytime it's you in the
right spot for you I guess okay so here
we go
we're gonna go again shut up because I
like your hair
yes and I wanted to know how do you what
do you do what's your regime put your
hair care regime I don't do much I do I
don't wash or condition my hair too
often once a week once a week once a
week whoa when I do the conditioner too
much then I'll use a brush but that's it
really just to brush it through uh-huh
and then I towel dry my hair and that's
it hey will somebody bring me that hair
thing that head thing it's on my desk
oh that's amazing I just went crazy oh I
know it's on the spectrum well how much
do you bench press how much you've been
stood high what do you bench if I don't
ever bench well what do you do how do
you get this uh I don't know how much I
bench we're doing it dude do it again
Wow
see that that's really strong I do like
a lot of different stuff a lot of lunges
a lot of like pull-ups and likes blanks
all day long come on I can do that get
it Wow